>> Kyle Simpson: To understand
this a little bit more concretely,
I wanna walk through a piece of code
which within a few seconds of glancing at
you can in your mind have executed and
said I know what this program is gonna do.
But it turns out there's a lot more
complexity to this code than we
are typically used to dealing with.
And I'm gonna try to train you over the
next few minutes to think about this code
in a way that more closely matches the way
the JavaScript engine thinks about it.
So we're gonna do that by way of what's
gonna sound like a bit of a silly
exercise.
But hopefully it'll be lighthearted enough
to keep you engaged and interested.
We're going to pretend as if
a conversation is happening
in this processing of
the JavaScript program.
There's going to be two actors,
two entities that are going to be talking.
One is the compiler, the thing that's
processing the JavaScript program.
The other one is the scope manager, and
scope manager is the one that makes
buckets, makes marbles,
drops the marbles in.
It's the compiler who says,
hey, I have this thing, and
it's the scope manager who says,
I'm gonna make a plan for
that, I'm gonna make a plan for
a bucket and make a plan for a marble.
And that'll be our first pass through
the program, is that compilation step.
And then after we've
set up all those plans,
then we'll come back and execute the code.
So we want to process this code
according to that conversation.
And you can follow along with me,
you can literally speak out loud.
It helps you,
it's sort of an old teacher trick,
if I get you to say this stuff out loud,
it embeds it more in your brain.
So as we go along I want you
to speak out loud with me,
even though it sounds a little bit silly.
Remember, in our processing phase,
in our compilation phase,
we have a scope manager and
we have a compiler.
So I'll play the part of compiler
talking to a scope manager.
And when I come across, as I see
here on line 1, when I see on line,
a var declaration,
whether it's a let or a const, or
a var isn't relevant at this moment.
But I'm gonna use vars just for
the simplicity of illustration.
That's a formal declaration.
In other words, we're creating a marble.
And we gotta know what color
to make that marble, so
we gotta have some scope
that we're adding it to.
And in this case,
obviously it's the global scope, okay?
And just for
the simplicity of our discussion,
I'm gonna use the three primary colors.
I'm gonna say the outer global scope
is gonna be the red bucket and
then wherever we have inner buckets
we'll have blue and green, okay?
So we have a red bucket that
represents this global scope and I,
being the compiler, whenever I see
a formal declaration like I do on line 1,
I'm gonna say, hey, global scope, hey,
red bucket, I have a formal declaration.
I have a marble here, have you ever
heard of this thing called teacher?
And I'm asking this question because if
it already knows about an identifier of
the name teacher,
it doesn't need to do anything.
That's a no op.
There's no such thing as redeclaration.
It's just okay, great,
you already know about this marble.
But in this particular case, since it's
the first time that the compiler would
have asked the global scope
about a variable called teacher,
then the global scope's gonna say,
nope, never heard of it.
But I've created now a red marble for
you and, pop,
now we just dropped it
into the red bucket.
It hadn't actually been created,
that they don't get created for real until
execution, but conceptually we're creating
this plan from what we see in the program.
So yes, global scope says, sure,
we'll make a red marble and
we'll drop it into the red bucket.
Now what we're doing is looking for
these formal declarations.
And sometimes they look
like on line 1 var teacher.
Sometimes they look like line 3,
functions or another kind of declaration.
Functions make a marble, in this case,
the marble on line 3 would
be called otherClass.
And that needs to get added to some scope.
So if I ran across, as the compiler,
line 3, a formal declaration for
a function, I would have the same
conversation with the scope manager.
I'd say hey, scope manager,
compiler here again.
I found another formal declaration, in
this case for a marble called otherClass.
Have you ever heard of
that identifier before?
And in this case,
what's my answer gonna be?
>> Speaker 2: No.
>> Kyle Simpson: Nope,
never heard of it, but
here's another, what color marble?
>> Speaker 2: Red.
>> Kyle Simpson: Red marble because
we're still in the global scope,
so here's another red marble, boop.
So now we have two red
marbles in the red bucket.
That takes care of
the identifier otherClass
as well as the identifier teacher.
Now, I being the compiler am smart enough
to realize, that's a special kind of
thing, because a function makes scopes,
it makes buckets.
So, hey, scope manager guess what,
we're gonna need another bucket.
And to stretch this metaphor a little bit,
now we're creating a bucket inside of
a bucket, so like a giant barrel and
then a tiny little bucket inside, okay?
I know it's stretching
the metaphor a little bit.
But now we had a giant red barrel and
inside of it, hey,
scope manager we need a blue bucket,
because it's a function.
So scope manager says, sure,
now we got a blue bucket, and
now we are talking about the blue bucket,
and let's step into that function and
talk about it as its own scope,
since that's functions creates scopes.
So where's our next
formal declaration then?
Well, it's on line 4, right?
Line 4 has another formal declaration, in
this case for a variable called teacher.
So, the conversation is gonna
continue exactly like before,
even though it's the same name,
same conversation, we're gonna say, hey,
blue bucket, hey scope manager for
this other class.
I have a formal declaration for
a marble called teacher, ever heard of it?
Now the answer to that question might
surprise you because you might think,
sure, we heard about it on line 1!
But remember we're talking to
an entire different bucket now.
We're talking to the blue bucket,
not the red barrel, okay?
I know this stretches
the metaphor horribly thin, okay.
But we're talking to the blue bucket.
So we're saying hey, blue bucket,
do you have a marble called teacher?
And what's blue bucket's response?
What's the scope manager going to say?
>> Speaker 3: No.
>> Kyle Simpson: But
here's your, what color marble?
>> Speaker 3: Blue marble.
>> Kyle Simpson: Here's your blue marble.
Okay, so now there are two marbles in two
separate buckets of two different colors,
even though they have the same name.
Follow me?
By the way, having two variables at
different scopes of the same name,
that has a term, it's called shadowing.
Sounds like sort of like evil or
whatever, there's nothing bad about it,
shadowing is entirely okay.
But there is an offshoot of shadowing,
which is, now that we've created
a variable called teacher,
we've created a blue marble called
teacher in that other class scope.
Well, now there's no possible way
that we can reference lexically
the variable from line 1.
We can't reference the red marble because
now there's a blue marble of the same
name, because of the shadowing.
It's totally okay, but
it does limit us from what we can access.
Because those names,
it would match the nearest one,
which in this case would
be the blue marble.
Follow me?
So, we look for
any other formal declarations.
Do we find any more in
the otherClass function?
We see a reference to console.log, but
we see no more formal declarations.
So we're finished with
the otherClass function.
Now we step back out to what color scope?
>> Speaker 2: Red.
>> Kyle Simpson: The red scope,
the global scope.
And we look for
the next formal decoration.
What line do we find the next
formal decoration on?
>> Speaker 2: 8.
>> Kyle Simpson: How about line 8?
You see here the formal function
declaration for an identifier called ask.
The conversation continues
exactly like before.
The conversation says, hey, what scope?
Hey?
>> Speaker 2: Global.
>> Kyle Simpson: Global scope, hey,
red bucket,
I have a formal declaration for
an identifier called ask,
ever heard of it?
And the answer is?
>> Speaker 3: No.
>> Kyle Simpson: Nope, never heard of it.
But here's your?
>> Speaker 3: Red marble.
>> Kyle Simpson: Red marble,
great, you're following perfectly.
There's a red marble,
because we are in the global scope.
And that's what color marble
matches with the red bucket.
Yes?
>> Speaker 3: Why did we
skip over console log?
>> Kyle Simpson: We didn't skip over
it from the perspective of compilation.
That is a good question.
The compiler would have certainly handled
line 5 and done a bunch of compilation.
It doesn't have any impact on our scopes.
So we've narrowed our focus of compiler
theory to preparing our identifiers and
our scopes.
Doing our marble bucket sorting thing.
So we're just skipping over
the uninteresting details at
this point, right.
There's whole courses on compiler
theory that would get into all
the nitty gritty of line 5,
but since it doesn't create or
access any variables within our scopes,
we don't need to worry about it.
Make sense?
Okay, good question.
All right, so
we just made a red marble called ask.
And being a good compiler we notice
that's attached to a function.
Guess what, scope manager,
we're gonna need another bucket.
This one we'll call the green bucket.
So scope manager, could you go ahead and
make a green bucket for us.
Scope manager says sure, and now we
step into the scope of the green bucket,
the function labeled ask here, okay.
So we look for
formal declarations in that function.
Where do we find the next
formal declaration?
>> Speaker 2: Line 9.
>> Kyle Simpson: Line 9, you see there
on line 9 I have a var declaration,
so that's getting real repetitive, the
conversation goes exactly the same way.
Hey green bucket, hey scope of ask,
I have a formal declaration for
an identifier called?
>> Speaker 2: Question.
>> Speaker 3: Question.
>> Kyle Simpson: Question,
ever heard of him?
And the answer is?
>> Speaker 2: Nope.
>> Kyle Simpson: But?
>> Speaker 3: Here's your green marble.
>> Kyle Simpson: Here's your green marble,
right?
So we get a green marble and
boop we drop it in the green bucket.
Now, this is critical,
because you'll notice on line 10 we
have a reference to an identifier.
This isn't creating marbles, so in this
processing step we're not gonna worry so
much about creating it.
But we are going to have to understand
where that marble comes from,
what color marble that is,
when we execute the code in the next step.
So it's critical that we do
this marble sorting correctly
as we process the code the first time.
So we're done with the ask function,
right?
There's no more formal declarations.
And then we step back
out to the global scope.
Do we find any more formal
declarations in the global scope?
>> Speaker 2: No.
>> Kyle Simpson: Okay?
So thumbs up, we are now done
with that processing stage,
with that compiler phase of this code.
And what we are left with is a plan for
all the buckets and all the marbles.
We've accounted for
all the scopes that exist and
where all the identifiers
fit into all of those.
Including references to them like on line
10, we know what color marble that is.
You with me?
We know all of that stuff.
We've got all that plan all laid out.
That is then handed over as
part of the execution plan so
that the virtual machine,
the JavaScript engine, can run this code.
Everybody with me?
Now it's important to note
that when we execute the code,
there's no more declarations for anything.
All the vars are gone,
essentially, because we don't
need to declare anything anymore.
We already know what that's gonna do,
because we figured that
stuff out at compile time.
So, one key takeaway, don't miss this.
One key takeaway is that in a lexically
scoped language which JavaScript is all
of the scopes that we're dealing with,
all of the lexical scopes and
identifiers, that's all
determined at compile time.
It's not determined at run time.
It is used at run time, but
it is determined at compile time.
And why that matters is,
that allows the engine to much
more efficiently optimize, because
everything is known and it's fixed.
Nothing during the run time can determine
that this marble is no longer red,
now it's blue.
Once we've processed through, we already
know what color marble it is and
we're done with that discussion.
So that allows the JavaScript engine
to be much more efficient at its job.
The takeaway that you
should have from that is,
the decisions that I've made about
scope are author time decisions.
When I write this function and
I put this variable here,
it means that that variable is
always gonna be that color marble.